In the last lectures you learn how to use can actually weight control access to a route.
Now I want to focus on to control of where you are allowed to leave around or not.
We can control this too and we might want to control this if we are locked in.
Once we do edit a server now we for example are allowed to edit the def server.
And here if we actually change something I want to ask the user if he accidentally clicks back or somewhere
else.
If you really want to leave or if you maybe forgot to click update server first.
So this convenience method of keeping the user from accidentally navigating away.
How can we implement this.
Let's go to the edit server component for this here and let's add a new property.
Below will allow edit.
I'll add a change has saved property which is false by default and which I want to change whenever we
click on update server.
Here of course we did upset to update the server.
So I want to call change has saved and said is to true here because now the changes were indeed saved
after the changes were saved here.
I want to navigate away so I will inject the router here type router.
Make sure to add the import at the top as always from the Anglo router package and then your after we
saved our changes.
I want to navigate away a want to go up one level to the last loaded server and Fordham's I will pastie
relative to configuration and want to navigate relative to the currently active route.
So far so good we're changing does change a safe property here.
Now let's make sure that whenever the user tries to accidentally navigate a way that we prevent him
from doing so or at least ask if he really wants to leave now we somehow need to execute this code in
this component here because we will need access to this change a safe method which informs us on whether
this update button was clicked or not.
However a guard always needs to be a service because we need to provide it just like we provided you
off guard.
So somehow just doesn't fit.
We need to access to code and our component and have a service and that sounds like a complicated set
up but it is and it's actually really simple.
In my adult server folder here or add a new file on them it can deactivate guard.
And this again will also be a service as all guards are and in here.
First of all now want to export an interface interface simply is a contract which can be imported by
some other class let's say which forces this class to provide some logic.
So here I will name the scan component deactivate and this interface will require one thing from the
component which implements it.
This component should have a can deactivate method.
This method and that is simply how I define the type of this candidate.
The actual method since it is only an interface it won't contain the actual logic.
It will only contain information how it should look like.
So this mapping should take no arguments but in the end it should return an observable which therefore
needs to be imported and this fall here from our access absorbable which will resolve to a boolean end
or a promise which will resolve to a boolean in the end or just a boolean.
You might recognize this pattern you're from you can activate Guard.
These guards share the same structure.
So dad is my interface.
Nice to have it but that alone won't do the trick.
Now let's come to the important thing.
The meat off this class of service here is say the service itself.
So I'll name it can de-activate guard and discard will implement.
Can de-activate does it say interface provided by the Anglo routers so we need to import it from there.
This actually is a generic type and it will REPP our own interface so it will wrap an interface which
forces some component or some class to implement to Candy ECU add method might sound complicated but
this is the set up which will make sure that we later can easily connect a component to our Candy act
with Gargi year.
So for now let's just go with that piece of information.
And now this class here this guard will also need to have a candy actuator method.
Does a C candy act with method which will be called by the angler router.
Once we try to leave a route therefore this will have the component on which we're currently on as an
argument and this component needs to be of type can component deactivate which means it needs to be
a component which has this interface you're implemented.
Therefore a component which has a candy Edward method.
This will become super important in a second.
We also will received the current drought as an argument so that is the the way that route snapshot
need to make sure to import this to it will have the current state.
So that's a router's state snapshot.
Import this to the next state.
So where do you want to go.
Because remember this will be called at the end when we want to leave around so next state is an optional
argument though.
This will also be a route for state snapshot and this will now also return an observable a promise or
a boolean.
So just like to can activate guard data how do can deactivate method in or can deactivate guard looks
like.
And here I now want to call can de-activate on the component we're currently on.
And this is why I need to implement this interface in this component.
Why I created this interface in the first place because now the angler router can execute candy activate
in our service and can rely on the fact that the component we're currently on has to Candy activate
method 2 because this is what we will actually implement the logic checking whether we are allowed to
leave or not because we need this connection between our guard and component.
So this is why we can safely call candy activate here and now with that information.
We can go back to our app routing module and on the edit page here we want to add does guard.
So we can add Candy acted as a property to this route config.
It takes an array just like can actually wait.
And here we now will point to our can deactivate guard.
Make sure to add the same or they are four and now Anglo will run discard.
Whenever we try to leave this path your device component loaded at this path for this to work.
We of course need to go to our module and provide our acan de-activate guard just like before can you
activate
with dispar wide it make sure to add to import.
We're almost there but one important piece is missing.
Remember that I told you that you can react with guard willingly and call candy actuator or component.
Well for this to work on our added server component here we need to implement our Can component de-activate
interface our own interface.
We export that in our can deactivate Guard service file.
This interface does interface now forces us to implement the candy actuates method and our component
which is import because we tried to call this method on our components here so the edits server component
here I will simply add I can deactivate method.
Now we know how this method should look like because we do find it here.
It should return an observable a promise or a boolean.
So let's make sure that it does.
And now here first of all we need to import observable from observable from our ex-state slash observable
but with that and with the import add it here in can de-activate We now provide the actual logic deciding
on whether we are allowed to leave or not.
This logic will be run whenever you can de-activate Guard is checked by the angler or router.
So here I would quickly check if we're first of all allowed to edit this because if we're not allowed
like this hearable would turn true anyways because we weren't allowed to edit it in the first place
so sure you may leave.
And otherwise I would check if my server name here is unlike the server name we had at the beginning.
Server name here this property is simply bound wired a two way binding to user inputs.
So initially the set to the value we get from outside from the server which was loaded we bind it here
but as soon as we type we will have some differences.
So if we have differences on the server name or on the server status.
So here I also check if this is not the same as before server status.
So if one of the two was changed and now were rapid in parentheses so if one of the two was changed
and the changes we're not saved.
So change is safe is false.
In this case.
I want to return a confirm dialog where I asked the user do you want to discard to change his Oberweis
I will return true because otherwise either nothing was changed or it was changed.
But change is safe to set to true and we did save it.
Indeed with this emplace Let's go back let's go back towards servers.
And first of all log in maybe.
Let's go to the death server which is the one we are allowed to edit.
Enter here.
If I now type something there and it didn't click update server and I click somewhere else.
We are asked if you want to leave.
If I click Cancel we stay on this page.
We may now save our changes.
And then we are navigated away without getting any issues at all.
And the fact that we updated the wrong server simply happens because here we still are always loading
the server with the ID one.
So we should update this to get our real I.D..
So maybe here access our route snapshot Perrin's I.D. and pass this as an I.D. and thereafter of course
also subscribe to roud parents to update the idea of parents change that is something you can do as
an exercise.
And of course make tiers of type number by converting it.
But more importantly your everything's working as it should.
We are only allowed to change this if we did click update our ys we are asked.
Or of course if here once we are asked we click OK we are allowed to discard our change.
So that is true or that is possible too.
But now with Candy added We have this extra protection in place.
So with this we learned a lot about routing in this module.
Now there's one more guard I want to dive into and we will do so in the next lecture